yeah so i  choose the project that  i did on my 5th semester ...

event attendance management system

so what event attendance management system basically do is when organizing a event for organizers they can track and analyze the Session in real time. So there is a web application for event organizers . so through that they can track the entering and leaving of the attendees , creating conference rooms ,adding sessions to rooms, and view analyzed info about sessions  like wise things . and for event attendee also we provide display device in front of session room so they can view all the info about ongoing sessions, upcoming session like wise.so for hardware part we used ESP 32 as the main micro controller, RFID sensors and readers, and display device and for web application we used MERN stack and we hosted it on AWS and we used AWS services like Ec2 ,Lambda functions ,Iam roles ,Iot core.   

my part --
for my part first i did was find a efficient communication method between central hub and sensors so after some search i present wifi as main communication method and HTTP/HTTPS for
protocol for real time communication.
for my part first i worked on the front end of our web application and the display device .So i started to work on some UI parts of web application and display device using FIGMA. then i started on working on front end parts like , login , registration page, conference room, overview, attendee ,pages. so i choose react framework for this and i used react Hooks like UseState ,Use Context, Use effect, UseRef and for data communication within components  i used props and prop drilling like concepts . and also some routing between pages using React router. Also i used many libraries like axios for connecting with backend API , react-router , react-multi-carousel like things. For styling i used CSS and tailwind CSS .

for condiotnal redndering - logical and operator , tenary operator
Used the spread operator to pass all props at once to a component 

where you used arrays in this project?
Managing Lists of Data: 
store and manage lists of attendees for sessions.
Keep track of different sessions in a conference room.

Rendering Components using map and arrays;
Display lists of ongoing and upcoming sessions.
Render lists of attendees in the frontend.

where you used UseState ?

inside conference room page there is a feature to add a session room through a form when relevant data is given . i created it using Use state
and also for handle form inputs for login, registration, like things i also used useState.

where you used UseEffect ?

i used useEffect when  Fetching Data on Components from APIs like fetching the list of sessions or conference rooms. So i wrote the function for data fetching inside the useEffect so it will render only one time.

why use mern stack ? any reason?
so by using mern stack we can use react ,by react we can create dynamic and responsive interfaces it is very important create a real time application like this. 
also  MERN stack has a large and active community, so now it has many resources, libraries, wo we can use them when we developing our application .


why mongodb?
yeah so mongodb is a very good non relational database. also we need to scale our database because there can be many sessions rooms at once so we need to scale it . so when it comes to scalability mongodb s very good and it goes equally with NodeJS. yeah that's why we used it 


what are the libraries used in here

axios       : A promise-based HTTP client for the browser and Node.js.
react-icons : A library for including icons from various icon packs in React applications.
react-router: A library for routing in React applications.
react-data-table-component: A library for creating data tables in React applications.
react-multi-carousel      : A library for creating responsive carousels in React. 



baby development tracking system

A mobile application for parents,doctors and midwives to track the growth of babies from 0 to 5 years old. parents can register babies in the application .Doctors can also register to this application and they can add standard  vaccinations details of babies , Medication and Recommendations. so this app includes features like doctor/midwife/baby registration, vaccination tracking, growth monitoring ,user notifications like features. For tech stack we used android studio with java and for database we used fire base. 
And future if we have time we like to apply AI chatbot name 'Nanny ' for this application.

features = 

Vaccination Tracking  - The system is equipped with a standard vaccine schedule, Users can record the vaccinations the babies have already received and receive notifications for upcoming vaccinations
Growth Monitoring  -  application has standard weight and height ranges based on the baby's age. Users can enter the baby's weight and height regularly, and the system compares these values with the standard ranges. if the weight or height falls outside the standard range, users receive notifications

Medication and Recommendations - Midwives ,doctors can provide additional recommendations, including extra medicines, vitamins, and specific instructions for a baby.
    
actually i did this project like a year ago 
 
my part --
so what i did in this project was i created  registration parts of doctor, midwives , baby .and the vaccination details adding parts and firebase integration for those . so i designed this using XML in Android Studio with  java.so i really used some of OOP concepts like encapsulation , inheritance  and interfaces  like wise .  so i used encapsulation to secure fields like medicalLicenseNumber, specialty in the Doctor class are private and accessible only through public getter and setter methods. and i use Inheritance to  Create base class called USER and by extending that i created specific classes for doctor midwives and baby. by that i can share some common attributes and methods among classes like name,id. And i used interfaces also like inbuilt interfaces in android studio . and i also created xml forms and UIs for this. and after creating that i set the firebase fire store integration with some those components. 



Library- Management-System

so in this project we Developed a library management system for libraries users . So this system includes features like monitor, search books, view books, and lending activities, user registration /login.
so the tec stack we used was html ,php and for database we used MySQL and for styling we used css.

my part -- 

so for my part i created frontend parts of some  pages like homepage, search books, borrowed books, login/registration like wise and i used css for styling and  i did some backend parts also using php like form submissions, and database interactions. Then i used  MySQL To store data related to users, books, and transactions. so  i used GET and POST Methods for Form Handling( search for books and see the results). and for various activities i created reusable functions and use it on different components ,and pages. For example, I created a  function to fetch book details from the database. This function can  be used in different pages like the read books, and borrowed books pages to display book information .i used like Password Hashing in registration pages Used password_hash to securely hash passwords before storing them. Also i used basic Sql queries like SELECT , INSERT,UPDATE for data retrieval ,insertion and updates.
and i also  pay mt attention about key relationships like what are the  foreign keys , Primary keys.

 tables - users , books , authors , catagories ,transactions

 SELECT -  searching for books by title 
 INSERT -  inserting new users, recording loan transactions
 UPDATE -  updating the availability status of books after they are borrowed

Join  - 
  
1. user wants to see the books they have borrowed
-  i used JOIN operation to combine data from the users, books, and transactions tables.

SELECT users.user_id, users.username, books.book_id, books.title, transactions.borrow_date
FROM users
JOIN transactions ON users.user_id = transactions.user_id
JOIN books ON transactions.book_id = books.book_id
WHERE users.user_id = ?;

2. display book search results with additional information,
- i used join the books table with other related tables, such as authors or categories.

SELECT books.book_id, books.title, authors.author_name, categories.category_name
FROM books
JOIN authors ON books.author_id = authors.author_id
JOIN categories ON books.category_id = categories.category_id
WHERE books.title LIKE ? OR authors.author_name LIKE ?;


View - (virtual table to simplfy complex queries)

1.view to show all currently borrowed books and their borrowers.

 CREATE VIEW active_borrowed_books AS
SELECT users.username, books.title, transactions.borrow_date
FROM users
JOIN transactions ON users.user_id = transactions.user_id
JOIN books ON transactions.book_id = books.book_id
WHERE transactions.return_date IS NULL;

2. view for get user information 

CREATE VIEW user_info AS
SELECT users.user_id, users.username, users.email, COUNT(transactions.transaction_id) AS borrowed_books_count
FROM users
LEFT JOIN transactions ON users.user_id = transactions.user_id
GROUP BY users.user_id;


Trigger - (automatically execute a predefined action in the database)

1. trigger to update the availability of a book when it is borrowed or returned.

CREATE TRIGGER after_transaction_update
AFTER UPDATE ON transactions
FOR EACH ROW
BEGIN
    IF NEW.return_date IS NOT NULL THEN
        UPDATE books SET available = 1 WHERE book_id = NEW.book_id;
    ELSE
        UPDATE books SET available = 0 WHERE book_id = NEW.book_id;
    END IF;
END;


Stored Procedures

1.Create a stored procedure for user registration that handles inserting user details and password hashing.

CREATE PROCEDURE register_user(IN p_username VARCHAR(50), IN p_password VARCHAR(255), IN p_email VARCHAR(100))
BEGIN
    DECLARE hashed_password VARCHAR(255);
    SET hashed_password = SHA2(p_password, 256);
    INSERT INTO users (username, password, email) VALUES (p_username, hashed_password, p_email);
END;





User-Management-System |

user management system is really a  individual project that user can register, login ,update, delete Contacts and add blogs. mainly why i did it was to practice php and get some experience of it . it doesn't contain many funcunalites but that time it really helped me to get some idea about php and my sql .but learned basic things like Password Hashing(password_hash() function to securely hash user passwords before storing them in the database. / Form Handling (post/get method) / sql statements  like Update Query, delete query , Select Query (SELECT statement to fetch the user's data based on the provided username or email.) like wise . so this was done mainly for learn about php .


Keyboard for visually impaired 

in this project we designed a  keyboard for those with visual impairments .so this produces characters using brail  combinations and provides audio signals when a button is pressesd. 
we acutally implemented this on a breadboad.so the tech stack was Python , Arduino.  so i created some python scripts for the keyboard
so this project was done in my 2nd year and it was acutally more of a hardware project.can i tell you about a software project that i done.


grocery list app

A basic grocery list application with features like the ability to add and remove items and categorise the items
that were brought. This project is still being worked on with plans to add more features and make the mobile
application.
Technology stack : React | CSS | Node.js


Interviews Faced

Millenium IT
Zebra
IronOne
LBFinance
Effective Solutions
Cypso Lab (offered)
Altria Consulting 
WealthOS

