
start everything with yeah or repeat a small  part of the question
if it is first question start with Good Morning !!!

* sorry I'm not clear about the question can you repeat
* sorry i didn't get it properly
* can i have a minute to think about it

* Thank you , Have a nice day
* Thanks ,you too have a nice day 

"Thank you for the opportunity to interview for this position. 
 could you please let me know when I might expect to hear about the next steps or the final decision?"


tell me about your self?
 
i am ravindu , i am 24 years old and i am currently a computer engineering undergraduate of University of Peradeniya. so i am really interest in software engineering, web/mobile app development and a/i. also i have done some group projects and have some experience on those fields. So i like to describe myself as a person who have good  time management skills and person who good in team environment as well as individual environment . and i like to learn new technologies  work with them and have some experience on those as i grow my carrier. 

what are specific goals include your carrier path ?  / where do you see yourself upcoming 5 years? continue on carrier field or study filed? / Aspirations and career goals

yeah , so first i have to finish my internship period ,i would like to get ground level understanding about the things i do  then after that period i have to go back to the university and in my 4th year i have final year project so my goal is to use what i learn in internship period and use that on this project.and then i like to see myself in a carrir path i would like to get a starting job as a junior  software engineer and after 2 years a time i like to be a senior software engineer so yes i see my self in  5 years as a software engineer

what motivates you ?( i have this kind of goals so that why i do this )

Some people are motivated by money, fame like things but i think im motivated by different things . so i  am motivated by constantly having goals i want to archive, being satisfied at my work and being a position where i can support my family. So im constantly working personally and professionally to archive that goals .

(teamwork)

what do you think that what ability to have to work as a team?

yeah , so the first thing is a team is consist with different peoples so there are different ideas , opinions.so i think the first thing is communication, so we have to gather to a common ground ,share our ideas , listen to others and be open to them.so i think the communication is the main thing when it comes to work as a team.

tell me about a time you lead the team how did you lead the team ?

so when we organizing the coders competition lot of tasks were divide among teams and i was leading the design team so what i did is i divided task among members and i tale them the deadline of these tasks and i was really kept touch with them . when im dividing the tasks within my team members , i specially ask them what are there specialties because then i can assign the tasks by their specific field . i think that way i can get most out of them.so if they did it well i gave them the really good feedback and encourage for more and if they didn't do it at all i explained the current situation explained the importance of it but not blaming them. And i make sure to encourage them so they would do it well in next time. and yeah that how i manage it.

when you are a team leader in your team there was two different ideas about two peoples about a implantation about a project/work what did you do as a team leader?

yeah so in a team there can be different ideas because it consist with different peoples. so when there is different ideas i like to first listen to ideas of both sides  . specially i keep open mind in a situation like that . i like to ask other members ideas also . then i tell them my opinion also. So at the end i like to encourage team members to  discuss what is the best for us and come to common ground and do the work according to the most suitbale idea .

how can you define your self as a team member ?/Describe a time you worked in a team

i think i am a really good team player .in my time in university i had worked with many teams like in academic projects, and in extra curricular activities and sports like wise. in some of those projects i was a team leader . so when im team member only i try my best to do my part brilliantly. And i think communication is the first thing when working in a team so i think before we do anything we have to come to a common ground as a team. so if I'm having a hard time when im doing a specific task im not hestitate to communicate with them and try to solve it and also if some teammate need my help , im always looking forward to help them.

if in our company you work as a team and one of your member not working well , what will you do ?  / Working in a group when the other member isn't performing

when somebody not woking first i like to talk with him and understand why he is not working. Im definitely not going to blame him because we dont know what he is going through.  And i wil explain the situation if he dont do it well what will be the situation . maybe it because he dosnt now the subject very well or he dont have knowledge about it .so if it the case i like to encourage him to first learn about it and i like to provide necessary learning material and sources like wise . and he maybe facing some personl issues also in that situation also i like to help him the anyway i can . so at the end i like to encourage and do his work by himself. not to assign others to it but him.



(Accomplishments)s

what have been most rewarding accomplishment?

i think my most rewarding accomplishment was my a/l because in the year that I'm facing the examination  at that time i had some problems in my family ,my father got really sick at that time. So it was really a challenge for me to do my studies in a situation like that but i did my studies well and i was able to pass the exam with having a merit rank in my district and i selected to university of Peradeniya . so i think it is my great accomplishment in a tough time.

can you say the type of process that had created the most beneficial learning experience for you?

i think most beneficial learning experience that i received is when i learning with prof.roshan regal .he was teaching programming mythology at that time .he really focused on teaching fundamentals & he give some online videos to watch on our leisure times. And what he did also is that he encourage us to ask question and he also try's to get that answers for our question from our selves.so that type of learning method i think is very effective 

what is the most important reward you accept to get from carrier?

yes , most important reward i like to get from my carrier is experience. so i never have an experience  in industry  this is my first time that I'm going to step in to the industry , so i like to learn about new technologies and get some hand to hand experience and know about how work environment is , work with projects in industry level so i like to have those experience in my carrier.

what is the most liked subject when you learing?

programming metholdogy (c lanugae). why i was really liked to it was acutally the professor teach that subject in very effective way..  he really focused on teaching fundementals and encourage us to ask.........


(challenges / problems /conflicts )


what was the toughest challenge you ever faced and how do you overcome?
time management 
time management was a  really a tough challenge for me for a while, i remember one time there was lot of deadline for assignments and our end exams are also coming near i was lot of trouble and i missed many of the deadlines because i couldn't mange it .but after that i search for a efficient way to manage time . soon i found a really good way to manage it , that is i divide my tasks into 4 groups that is urgent ,not urgent ,important and  not important .so i first do the task in category of urgent and the important then i do the tasks in category urgent but not important then i move to the category important but not urgent finally i go to the tasks that not urgent and not important.so that's how i manage my time and overcome the challenge.

did you have conflict about a thing with coworker and how did you navigate and resolve it?

so when i doing my 3rd year project i was assigned to create the ui design of our web application .But after i designed our team leaders feedback was it contains to much details on  home screen , but for me i didn't think like that i thanked it is good the way it is.so he and i had little conflict about that but i always keep a open mind about our conversation. So after discussing about that with our team members also i realized for home screen its don't need too much details so after that i redesign the  ui design. so that's how i resolve it 

how do you handle conflict with co workers?

so i think any kind of conflict can be a problem for team for moving forward and reaching its full potential . so i always try to take action and stop it quickly .  Ive seen in a situation like that some people relied on there leader to take care of the conflict but i think all the team members must take the responsibility for it. so in a situation like this i like to maintain a good communication and i specially try to keep  a open mind in a situation like that and i encourage them to come to a common ground and solve it a way that benifiacl for everyone. 


tell me about a major problem you handled was you successful in it?(can  use a project) / Challenges faced and how you handled them in group projects  / Difficulties faced in group projects

aa yes a problem that i had recently was in my 3rd year project it was a group project. Actually the night before the end evaluation of the project we discovered the big issue in frontend that is our app's ui was not responsive on different devices tablets and smartphones.in Laptops ,pcs it was displayed good but in smartphones and tablets it wasn't. So i was the team leader in that project so it was my responsibilitie take action emidetley , So i encourage my team members to not to panic and try to do best to solve this within the small time we have .so what we did was within overnight we  redesign the UI using tailwind css.and then we did the manual testing on various devices and screen sizes.after that application was good in all devices.  yeah that how we encountered that challenge 


tell me how you will handle it if  project proiorites are suddenly change ?

When project priorities change suddenly, I handle it by staying calm and look at the new situation. first I gather information about the changes and communicate  with my team to discuss implications and gather their input. Next, I  reprioritize tasks, updating the project plan  new timelines and resource allocations. then i  encorurage my team to start the projet implementation soon and do it in a best way we can within the time we have .

if you recive a project and your resources are very limited then how to handle it ?

If I receive a  project with very limited resources, I would first prioritize the most important tasks. I'd create a simple  plan based on what we have, and communicate with my team to get theres ideas also . I'd look for cost-effective solutions, like using free tools or asking for help from classmates or professors. Throughout the project, I'd stay flexible and ready to adapt our plan if needed, while regularly checking our progress to keep us on track.

what was a time when you were happy with your work and what was your reaction?

what success means to you and what feelings brings it to you, can share some success story 

consider the scenario you win a million dollar lottery would you still be working?

i will be thrilled if i win a such lottery i would hold a big saving for me and my family but i will be still working because i enjoy working and learning new things and facing challenges  so i would love to examine more fields

what would you do if you were working under a bad boss?

so first before jumping into conclusion that my boss is bad , i try my best to understand his nature and understand whats their problem is  If possible, I'd try to find common ground and improve our working relationship. If the situation didn't improve, I'd document issues and seek advice from HR or a mentor to find a resolution. 

will you lie for a company under any circumstances?

i believe in honesty,  so i dont think a anykind of lie would be beneficial  in a industrial situation .

what would you prefer being liked or being feared ?

i choose to be well respected in my organization . i think fear does not command respect . i want to be  a such way that my group members are not hesitate to reach out to me in any problem or any situations .

what do you think is better being perfect and delivering late and being good and delivering on time?

i think in industry it is always useful to good and delivering on time because time is money for organization if you are good on time then there is always space for advancement and enhancement but if you submit late then ther ther is no amount of perfection.


(Weakness / Strength)

what is biggest weakness?

so i think my big weakness is before i do something i need to know everything about it before i start it . for an example if im doing a  project with new framework that i don't know , im tend to learn A to Z of that framework and then start to do the project i know it is not very much bad but i realized it more time consuming. so i found a way to avoid that weakness , that is by doing more  practical work rather than learning many theories then finding the solutions for problems I'm facing i can also learn but much more efficient way . so i think that is my weakness and how i overcame it .

what is your biggest strength ? 

My biggest strength is my ability to work well under high-pressure situations. During my time at university, I faced tight deadlines for examinations, competitions, and projects.
so by efficient time managing i face the high pressure situations Additionally, I think im a strong communicator know the importance of strong communication when working in group environment . I am also a hard worker, willing to take on challenges.

how would you guarantee your other works wont effect our company(classes)?

in this time also i do my academics and do the tuition class only weekends. and also if i have a busy week with my academics or projects i talk to my students and i reschedule the classes for another day that they and im are free. i always prioritize my academics and carrier. it will not effect for work because i only do it in weekends.

what's your ideal work environment ?

i think i am at my best when im surrounded by like minded people who are all working towards the same goal . i think that kind of a work environment we can achieve more things together as a team . so i have done some search about your company and i known workplace culture is good and environment is closely align to my own .

how much of salary are you accepting? / which is more important job or the salary 
 
at this point im not very much after the salary, and im very much looking to develop my skills by working at your company. but im pretty sure that my skills will help to contribute to your work  so if i selected  i think you will give reasonable allowance.

what do you know about our company ?

i know its a software development company that provides software solutions for industries . and a company that uses cloud-native technologies. also i did some search and i ve notice very good online reviews so i think its company that has a good work environment

why you choose this company? / why you want to work in here?

so i've  done some search about your company so there was some interesting projects / and plans  that i liked too and  i also saw that company has very positive online reviews and i heard its have  good working environment that i can balance my work-life.so i think it is really good place to develop my skills both professionally and personally to be success in this industry 

why did you decide to apply for this role?

Software engineer is a role that i'm very passionate about. so first step is for that is get a software engineering internship then by step by step like junior or associate engineer i have to grow my carrier as a software engineer. And also i think i have the needed skill set for this position. also i ve done some search about your company and ive heard its a well respected company in the industry and its have a good work environment .so i think it is really good place to develop my skills both professionally and and personally to be success in this industry so yes thats why i applied for this role 

why do you think you are a good fit for this job?
Based on the requiremnts for this position i think my skills are matching with them and also im adapatability person so i can easily adapt to a environment .

what qualifications do you have that will make you successful in this company?

i think mainly i am a teamworker as i mention before i can work and comiunicate good with teams. i had done  many group projects also so share my ideas listing to others  i think im good at it.and i always looking for learn more in a any  chance that i get so when working in a company i think i will face many challnges but i like to see them as a opportunity to learn new things and grow my carrier. so that way i think i will be succefull


Why should we hire you?

as a fresher i have therotical knowledge and some project experience so im looking for a platform to implement my skills and knowledge . Based on the requirements for this position i think my skills are matching with them if you give me a chance i will put my 100 precent effeort for the growth of the company and myself too.


What are your hobbies ?
In my freetimes i like to watch movies and tv series and i also like to maintain physical fitness so im daily working out to maintain that 

talk about a topic you care about

so even in  previous video also i tell that i really like web development .so i like to tell some really basic things about it . Web development is like building a house on the internet. wo we know house needs a foundation, so its same for websites. Html comes as the structure  for website. Then comes the css its like painting and decorations for a house. without css i think website will look plain and boaring. next comes the javascript its like the handyman of web development. its add the interactivity to website. like button that change color , forms that validate inputs like wise. And we know that when we are going to make a house first what we do is we make a plan right . so in web development also we make a plan it calls the ui/ux design.of course there is many more in web development like libraries and frameworks like  react, angular,vue.js, bootstrap. But within the time i think this would be a good little summary of web development

Talk about a past failure and what you learned from it /How do you manage deadlines?

time management was a  really a tough challange for me i rember one time there was lot of deadline for assignmnts and lab reports andour end exams are also coming near i was lot of trouble and i missed many of the deadlines because i couldn't mange it . so the time management  was very big problem for me and i really looked for a practical solution for that .soon i realized a good solution for that .what i did was i divide my tasks into 4 groups that is urgent ,not urgent ,important and  not important .so i forst do the task in catagroy of urgent and the important then i do the tasks in catgory urgent but not important then i move to the catgory important but not urgent finally i go to the tasks that not urgent and not important.so thats how i manage my time.



why we shouldn't hire you?

Questions about extracurricular activities/Extracurricular activities /Extracurricular activities (sports, medals, certificates)

sports =athletic/ powerlifting
so i did many extracurricular activities in university and my school time
so in my school time i did athletics mostly the running events. and i was a junior prefect also. then in my university  i was in university powerlifting team im competing in under 65kg category.so i participated some interunit and interfaculty powerlifting meets  my target is to get university colors before i leave the university. 

and im currently a part time al mathematics tutor .

so in university  i did some volunteering works like project arunalla and project nanthambara like things. project arunalla is like we go to other districts schools and we teach to students that facing o/l examination .it was really good experience


Interests and hobbies / General questions about myself and interests

actually im really like to workout and maintain fitness . so actuallty thats first reason i started to powerlifting because then automatically i have to workout. and besides that i really like to watch Movies and tv series. 

About currently doing projects
actually in these days im not doing any project but i can tell you about the project that i done previously .


About academic work
Knowledge about the company and reasons for joining( IFS)
Interest in the latest technology (e.g., Android)


Expectations from the industrial training
Confidence to handle an individual project

Hard times in university life?

About leaderships (school & university) and awards
What is the capital of America      Washington, D.C.
About Codegen. why you want to join

How do you handle stress?

actually i like to avoid stress by cutting the resons to happen the tests. 

Describe a time you faced a difficult technical problem

Technologies you have worked with
